Add documentation for the ISM rollover policy (#6687)
wazuh/wazuh-documentation: source/user-manual/wazuh-dashboard/config-file.rst

.. Copyright (C) 2015, Wazuh, Inc.

.. meta::
  :description: The Wazuh dashboard plugin includes a configuration file where you can define custom values for several options. Learn more about it in this section.

.. _wazuh_dashboard_config_file:

Configuration file
==================

> The Wazuh dashboard plugin includes a configuration file located at ``/usr/share/wazuh-dashboard/data/wazuh/config/wazuh.yml`` where you can define custom values for several options. This section describes all the settings available in this file.

Reviewer: "Wazuh dashboard plugin" isn't used in the documentation. The Wazuh components described in the Wazuh documentation are the server, the indexer, the dashboard, and the agent.

Author: We will need to address this in https://github.com/wazuh/internal-devel-requests/issues/391

I wanted to make this distinction because there are 2 relevant config files in Wazuh dashboard:

- `opensearch-dashboards.yml`
- `wazuh.yml`

As long as the full path is specified to make them easily to find, I don't mind using "Wazuh dashboard" always.

What are your thoughts in this?

| **Allowed values** | Any string                 |
+--------------------+----------------------------+

ISM rollover policy
-------------------

.. warning::

   Modifying these options has no effect if you do it once the Wazuh dashboard started for the first time. Read about different methods to customize the rollover policy in :doc:`/user-manual/wazuh-indexer/index-life-management`.

ism.rollover.enabled
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Toggles the verification of the rollover policy. If set to ``true``, the rollover policy will be applied to the indices that match the index patterns defined in ``ism.rollover.index_patterns``, only if there isn't any other policy managing these indices.

Reviewer: What does "verification" mean?

Author: When the app starts, it will look for the policy. If it's not present, the app will upload it.

I used "verification" because I couldn't find any better term.

I think this process is explained in the life cycle management guide, but maybe we could add it here too.

> Toggles the verification of the rollover policy. If set to ``true``, the rollover policy will be applied to the indices that match the index patterns defined in ``ism.rollover.index_patterns``, only if there isn't any other policy managing these indices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Toggle to verify if the indices have the rollover policy applied. When set to ``true``, Wazuh checks whether the indices that match the ``ism.rollover.index_patterns`` have the rollover policy applied. If no policy is managing these indices, it applies a rollover policy with the ``ism.rollover`` policy settings.
```

> This option does not enable or disable the policy itself. 

Reviewer: If not then what does? How to enable and disable? The option name is "enabled", what does it enables then?

Author: As explained [here](https://github.com/wazuh/wazuh-documentation/pull/6687#discussion_r1374858200), it enables or disabled the process to upload the rollover policy, but not the policy itself. Once the policy is uploaded, the only way to disable it is by removing it.

Reviewer: Ok, Instead, we could invite the user to read the Index life management section so they can learn how to disable the policy by removing it.

> This option does not enable or disable the policy itself. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

+--------------------+----------------------------+
| **Default value**  | true                       |
+--------------------+----------------------------+
| **Allowed values** | true, false                |
+--------------------+----------------------------+

ism.rollover.index_patterns
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> The policy will be applied to the indices that match the patterns defined here. The index format must match the pattern: ``^.*-\d+$``. The managed indices must use an alias. Set ``index.plugins.index_state_management.rollover_alias`` as the alias to rollover.

Reviewer: Examples for the ``^.*-\d+$`` format seem to be needed here. Linking to index aliases in Wazuh docs is also required here.

Author: Extracted from [here](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/ilm-rollover.html#ilm-rollover-options). I think this pattern applies to every index and index pattern name, so maybe it would be better to explain it in the [indices section](https://documentation.wazuh.com/current/user-manual/wazuh-indexer/wazuh-indexer-indices.html).

I see there is a note there that says:

> The index name must not contain the characters #, \, /, *, ?, ", <, >, |, ,, and must not start with _, -, or +. Also, all the letters must be lowercase.

`^.*-\d+$` is mostly the same, but as a regular expression that translates to:

- `^`: regex start
- `.`: Any character except new line
- `*`: 0 or more characters
- `\d+`: 1 or more digits
- `$`: regex end

Examples: `logs-0001`, `wazuh-alerts-4x-2023-10-27`, `wazuh-alerts-010`, `my-custom-index-128589`

Reviewer: If we say it's required to match the format ``^.*-\d+$`` we need to add an example of such condition, adding something like this: "for example ``wazuh-alerts-4x-2023-10-27``, ``my-custom-index-128589``"

Also, we mention aliases but we should be linking or explaining what aliases are.

> The policy will be applied to the indices that match the patterns defined here. The index format must match the pattern: ``^.*-\d+$``. The managed indices must use an alias. Set ``index.plugins.index_state_management.rollover_alias`` as the alias to rollover.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Defines index name matching patterns to select indices to apply the policy. The format of the index name must match the pattern: ``^.*-\d+$``, for example ``wazuh-alerts-4x-2023-10-27``, ``my-custom-index-128589``.

The managed indices must use an alias. Set ``index.plugins.index_state_management.rollover_alias`` as the alias to rollover.
```

+--------------------+-----------------------------------+
| **Default value**  | 50                                |
+--------------------+-----------------------------------+
| **Allowed values** | Any integer number greater than 0 |
+--------------------+-----------------------------------+

ism.rollover.min_index_age
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The minimum age required to roll over the index. Index age is the time elapsed since its creation. Supported units are ``d`` (days), ``h`` (hours), ``m`` (minutes), ``s`` (seconds), ``ms`` (milliseconds), and ``micros`` (microseconds).

Rolling over an index too often might cause performance issues. The minimum recommended value is 7 days.

+--------------------+---------+
| **Default value**  | 7d      |
+--------------------+---------+
| **Allowed values** | String  |
+--------------------+---------+

ism.rollover.min_primary_shard_size
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The minimum storage size in GB of a single primary shard required to roll over the index. For example, if you set ``min_primary_shard_size`` to 30 GB and one of the primary shards in the index has a size greater than the condition, the rollover occurs.

> The recommended shard sizes are 10-30 GB for search-heavy workloads and 30-50 GB for write-heavy workloads. The shard size must never exceed the 50 GB. In Wazuh, we use 25 GB, in order to achieve a good balance between both workloads.

Reviewer: "Must never exceed" or we don't recommend it although it's up to the user?

Author: It certainly can exceed 50 GB, but it's not advised as it can impair the cluster's perfomance.

+--------------------+-----------------------------------+
| **Default value**  | 25                                |
+--------------------+-----------------------------------+
| **Allowed values** | Any positive number               |
+--------------------+-----------------------------------+

ism.rollover.min_doc_count
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The minimum number of documents required to roll over the index.

> The documents are distributed across the shards of the index. Although a shard can contain up to 2^31 documents, it's recommended to keep the documents-per-shard below 200 million.

Reviewer: I understand it's the total number of documents and not a count number per shard.

+--------------------+-----------------------------------+
| **Default value**  | 200000000                         |
+--------------------+-----------------------------------+
| **Allowed values** | Any positive number               |
+--------------------+-----------------------------------+

ism.rollover.overwrite
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> If set to ``true``, the ``wazuh_rollover_policy`` will be updated with the values from the previous settings. Restarting Wazuh dashboard is required to apply the changes.

Reviewer: I think enabled and overwrite need a little more clarifications

Author: `overwrite` simple tells the APP to update the policy with the settings in the `wazuh.yml` file. By default, the app won't do anything if the policy already exists, no matter if its settings match those in the `wazuh.yml` or not.
